

Skip To Main Content

[](../../../Home.htm)

  * placeholder

Filter:

  * All Files

Submit Search

![Navigate previous](../../../images/transparent.gif) ![Navigate
next](../../../images/transparent.gif) ![Expand
all](../../../images/transparent.gif) ![](../../../images/transparent.gif)
![Print](../../../images/transparent.gif)

You are here:

[Software Version](../../FrontMatters\(Online\)/features-and-versions.htm):
3.2

# Shifts

![](../../../images/ShiftTimes.png)

Support the concept of working and non-working time within the business rules

## Summary

Within the Business rules it is useful to differentiate between working and
non-working time. For example, when measuring the time a process takes, only
working time should be measured; non-working time, such as evenings and
weekends, should not be included in the process time.

The working time can be defined in the SmartSpace configuration client. It is
built up from the working hours in a single 24-hour period which can be
assigned to days of the week in a named shift pattern.

The working time is then used by the Business rules engine to calculate the
differences between two times in working hours, for example how many hours are
worked between 16:30 Monday and 10:00 Tuesday, or to calculate times in the
future in working hours, such as what time is four working hours after 17:00
Friday.

If the Visibility component is licensed, the currently configured working- and
non-working time used by the Business rules engine can be viewed in a browser-
based interface.

Some users can also be given access to change the working time through the
web-site according to their SmartSpace roles. For example all workers may be
able to view the working time, but only team leaders are allowed to change the
working times.

It will vary from place to place who, if anyone, is allowed to change working
times through the website. For example, in some factories team leaders can
extend their shifts and use overtime.

![Navigate previous](../../../images/transparent.gif) ![Navigate
next](../../../images/transparent.gif) ![Expand
all](../../../images/transparent.gif) ![](../../../images/transparent.gif)
![Print](../../../images/transparent.gif)

* * *

[www.ubisense.net](http://www.ubisense.net/)  
Copyright Â© 2020, Ubisense Limited 2014 - 2020. All Rights Reserved.

