

Skip To Main Content

[](../../Home.htm)

  * placeholder

Filter:

  * All Files

Submit Search

![Navigate previous](../../images/transparent.gif) ![Navigate
next](../../images/transparent.gif) ![Expand
all](../../images/transparent.gif) ![](../../images/transparent.gif)
![Print](../../images/transparent.gif)

You are here:

# About this site

Use this website to discover the Ubisense SmartSpace software. You can find a
variety of information ranging from overviews of the SmartSpace components and
features to detailed conceptual and configuration information.

## Feedback

Your feedback can help us to improve our technical documentation. If you find
any errors in this manual, or have any suggestions for improvement, send an
email to support@ubisense.net, with the following details:

  * The version number of the website (see below)

  * The version number of the software (shown on each topic)

  * The URL of the topic on the website

  * A short explanation of the problem, or your suggestion

## Version

This is version 3.3 of the SmartSpace website.

## Copyright

Copyright © 2020, Ubisense Limited 2014 - 2020. All Rights Reserved. You may
not reproduce this document in whole or in part without permission in writing
from Ubisense at the following address:

Ubisense Limited  
St Andrew’s House  
St Andrew’s Road  
Cambridge CB4 1DL  
United Kingdom

Tel: +44 (0)1223 535170

WWW: [https://www.ubisense.net](http://www.ubisense.net/)

All contents of this document are subject to change without notice and do not
represent a commitment on the part of Ubisense. Reasonable effort is made to
ensure the accuracy of the information contained in the document. However, due
to on-going product improvements and revisions, Ubisense and its subsidiaries
do not warrant the accuracy of this information and cannot accept
responsibility for errors or omissions that may be contained in this document.

Information in this document is provided in connection with Ubisense products.
No license, express or implied to any intellectual property rights is granted
by this document.

Ubisense encourages all users of its products to procure all necessary
intellectual property licenses required to implement any concepts or
applications and does not condone or encourage any intellectual property
infringement and disclaims any responsibility related thereto. These
intellectual property licenses may differ from country to country and it is
the responsibility of those who develop the concepts or applications to be
aware of and comply with different national license requirements.

Windows® is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United
States and/or other countries. The other names of actual companies and
products mentioned herein are the trademarks of their respective owners.

![Navigate previous](../../images/transparent.gif) ![Navigate
next](../../images/transparent.gif) ![Expand
all](../../images/transparent.gif) ![](../../images/transparent.gif)
![Print](../../images/transparent.gif)

* * *

[www.ubisense.net](http://www.ubisense.net/)  
Copyright © 2020, Ubisense Limited 2014 - 2020. All Rights Reserved.

