

Skip To Main Content

[](../../../Home.htm)

  * placeholder

Filter:

  * All Files

Submit Search

![Navigate previous](../../../images/transparent.gif) ![Navigate
next](../../../images/transparent.gif) ![Expand
all](../../../images/transparent.gif) ![](../../../images/transparent.gif)
![Print](../../../images/transparent.gif)

You are here:

[Software Version](../../FrontMatters\(Online\)/features-and-versions.htm):
3.2

# Type and object definition

![web of blocks with smaller blocks illustrating
inheritance](../../../images/TypeAndObjectDefinition.jpg)

Tools and a framework to build and manage application-specific data models
including types, objects, names, and spatial properties

## Summary

In SmartSpace, object types are used to model real-world entities. An object
type has properties (sometimes also called attributes), which reflect the
entity's structure. Properties are defined using built-in types or other
object types. Creating a collection of types and assigning them properties
that are relevant to an application is called data modeling.

The first level of data modeling in SmartSpace is type and object definition.
This feature allows application developers to define new types (such as
product, process, trolley, forklift) and give them two fundamental properties:
a name and optional spatial properties (or spaces).

When building a new application, the name property is used to give every
object instance of a type a unique identifier, while spaces are used in
spatial relations between object types (see [Spatial relationship
definition](spatial-relationship-definition.htm)). Where an object type is
involved in more than one spatial relationship, it is possible to give the
type multiple different spaces to match each desired spatial relationship.

With the licensing of [Business object properties](../Visibility/business-
object-properties-for-visibility.htm), user-defined types can be created with
additional properties. These can be any of the basic numeric or string types
as well as user-defined types already created within the data model.
Additionally more complex relationships between properties can be defined.

The SmartSpace configuration client includes a types and objects creation GUI.

![Navigate previous](../../../images/transparent.gif) ![Navigate
next](../../../images/transparent.gif) ![Expand
all](../../../images/transparent.gif) ![](../../../images/transparent.gif)
![Print](../../../images/transparent.gif)

* * *

[www.ubisense.net](http://www.ubisense.net/)  
Copyright Â© 2020, Ubisense Limited 2014 - 2020. All Rights Reserved.

